
1. What is Data?
   In databases we store data in an organized manner
   It is secure, easy to ready, fast to read and fast to update;

2.  What is database?
    Database is a systematic collection of data.
    Database make data management easy.

3. Relational Database (Most usable and popular)
   Organize that data in a series of tables; Connected different tables with primary and foreign keys.
   Foreign key is primary key on it own table, but it becomes foreign in different table.

4.  Two Important rules:
    Primary key can not be duplicate and can not be null;
    Primary Key is e.g. Employee_Id, unique identification

5.  What is Foreign Key
    Foreign key is primary key, but used in different table to connect different tables.
    Foreign can be duplicate in other table;
    e.g. Department Id is primary key in Department's table, however if we use it in Employees table it can be Foreign Key.

6. Non Relational Database (another type of database, we don't learn)
   All data are in Key & Value format.

7. RDBMS -> Relational Database Management System
   All RDMS using SQL Language
   SQL language is not case sensitive, we can write lower or upper case letter.

8. What is SQL?
   SQL -> Structured Query Language
   SQL is a language that is used to work with Databases and manipulate data.

9. --How to test:
   SELECT * From employees;
   Purple word are key words;
   Starting "Select" - We only retrieve the info from DataBase;
   " * " star means  - Select ALL, Select Everything.

   --How to retrieve specific column:
   Select first_name from employees; (here we try to retrieve first name)

   -- how to see unique first names (remove duplicate values)
   select distinct first_name from employees;

   --How to filter
   Where condition (logical operators =, <, >, and, or)

   --find match
   ILIKE case insensitive; LIKE case sensitive

   --SubQuery: 1st inner query executes and then outer query. you can combine more then 2 combine;
    select *
    from employees
    where salary = (select max (salary) from employees);

    offset --skip couple of rows based on what you provide;
    limit  -- show just one, we limit how many we need to see.
    Order by - sort with salary, name and etc.
    Distinct - remove duplicate, unique

10. How To Create DataBase?
    Right click on Database -> Save Name (HR)
    Right click on HR -> Query Tool copy data -> Select everything and RUN
    Then delete everything and TEST
    SELECT * From employees;

11. How to delete dataBase?
    you can first close the open query tool by right clicking on the tab->remove panel.
    Then quit and reopen your pgAdmin, then right click on HR->Delete/Drop in pgAdmin.

12.Virtual Tables
   To store tables -> Create view EmailList As (... and then standard code request)

13. DDL & DML
      =Data Definition Language (DDL) / it is used to define data structures
    Create
    Drop
    Truncate
    Alter

      =Data Manipulation Language (DML) / it is used to define data itself
    Select
    Insert
    Update
    Delete

14. Column Constraints
        .NOT NULL - value of the column cannot be null
        .UNIQUE - value of the column must be unique
        .PRIMARY KEY - Not NULL and UNIQUE, e.g. ID
        .REFERENCES - OtherTable (PKColumn) used to give foreign key to the column as  the reference column.

15. Syntax for creating table
 Create table syntax:
    create table TableName (
        colName1 DataType Constraints,
        colName2 DataType Constraints (Optional)
        colName3 DataType Constraints
        );

16. How to insert columns in the table
/*
 INSERT INTO tableName (column1, column2, ...)
 VALUES (value1, value2);
 */

17. Update Columns in a table, whole column or specific records;
    Update table_name           update scrumteam
    Set column1=value1,         set jobtitle = 'DevOps'
        column2=value2,...
        where condition;        where Emp_ID = 4;

18. To change existing table structure use "Alter" key word
    Syntax:
    Alter table table_name action;

19. Join 2 tables' column and filter
    Syntax:
    select first_name, last_name, address, phone
    from customer join address
    on customer.address_id = address.address_id;

20.left outer join / right outer join = reunite 2 different columns

21. when from the same table we connect 2 columns -> Self JOIN

22. Set operators and why we need them?
    -There are 4 type of Set Operators:
       We need to have same number of columns.
     UNION - operator combines result sets of two or more select statements into a single result set (Removes duplicates, sorts results)
     UNION ALL - combines result sets as it is.
     INTERSECT - set operators returns records that are present/common for the tables we are merge.
     EXCEPT - set operator returns records from first query that is not present in second query.

23. INDEX
        A database 'Index' is a data structure that improves the speed of data retrieval.
        Syntax for creating INDEX:
            create index idx_tableName_columnName ON towns (name);

24. Functions
    Functions work as methods in Java, has special syntax. Based on the logic it returns some value.
    With functions you can just retrieve values, no data manipulation is available.

25. TRIGGGER
    A PostgresSQL Trigger is a function invoked automatically whenever an event such as insert, update, or delete occurs.

    Trigger Operations:
        Create Trigger
        Drop Trigger
        Alter Trigger
        Disable Trigger
        Enable Trigger

